Add tutorials about karmada-search (#257)
karmada-io/website: docs/userguide/globalview/global-search-for-resources.md

---
title: Global Search for Resources
---

## Background

> With the widespread use of multi-clusters, the administrator may deploy services on multiple clusters in order to provide service capabilities nearby.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multicluster is becoming a common practice. It brings services closer to users.
```

> At this time, it's usually inconvenient to obtain the Kubernetes resource information across multiple clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But it also makes it hard to query Kubernetes resources across clusters.
```

> Therefore, we need a caching layer and a search engine for Karmada to cache and search Kubernetes resources across multiple clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, we need a caching layer and a search engine for Karmada to cache and search for Kubernetes resources across multiple clusters.
```

We introduced a new component named `karmada-search` and a new API group called `search.karmada.io` to implement it.

## What karmada-search can do

![karmada-search](../../resources/key-features/unified-search.png)

karmada-search can:

> * Accelerates resource requests processing speed across regions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Accelerate resource requests processing across regions.
```

> * Provides a cross-cluster resource view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provide a cross-cluster resource view.
```

> * Compatible with multiple Kubernetes resource versions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Be compatible with multiple Kubernetes resource versions.
```

> * Unified resource requests entries

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Unify resource request entries.
```

> * Reduces API server pressure of member clusters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Reduce API server pressure on member clusters.
```

> * Compatible with a variety of search engines and databases

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adapt to a variety of search engines and databases.
```

What's more, `karmada-search` also supports proxying one global resource. See [here](./proxy-global-resource.md) for details.

> ## Config the cache scope of resources

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Scope the caching
```

> `.spec` field of `ResourceRegistry` represents the configuration of the cache scope.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`.spec` in `ResourceRegistry` defines the cache scope.
```

It has three fields to set:
- TargetCluster
- ResourceSelector
- BackendStore

### TargetCluster

> `TargetCluster` supports the config of the clusters where the cache system collect resource from. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`TargetCluster` means the cluster from which the cache system collects resources. 
```

It's exactly the same with [clusterAffinity](../scheduling/resource-propagating.md#deploy-deployment-into-a-specified-set-of-target-clusters) in `PropagationPolicy`.

### ResourceSelector

> `ResourceSelector` specifies the resource type that should be cached by `karmada-search`. It supports the config of `APIVersion`, `Kind` and `Namespace`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ResourceSelector` specifies the type of resources to be cached by `karmada-search`. Subfields are `APIVersion`, `Kind` and `Namespace`. 
```

> `ResourceSelector` can be configured as follows which means deployments in `default` namespace are selected:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example `ResourceSelector` means Deployments in `default` namespace are targeted:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: search.karmada.io/v1alpha1
kind: ResourceRegistry
metadata:
  name: foo
spec:
  # ...
  resourceSelectors:
    - apiVersion: apps/v1
      kind: Deployment
      namespace: default
```

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::Notes:
```

> If the `namespace` field is empty, it means all namespaces are selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A null `namespace` field means all namespaces are targeted.
```

:::

### BackendStore

> `BackendStore` specifies the location where to store cached items. By default, it will be stored in the memory of `karmada-search`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`BackendStore` specifies the location to store cached items. Defaults to the memory of `karmada-search`.
```
